[Tomoyo] Those in agreement,
raise your hands.
Then it's settled, as decided
by majority rule,
both the Drama and Choir
clubs will have Mr. Koumura
as their advisor
and are hereby sanctioned
for club activities.
You finally pulled it off!
Nice work.
Thanks.
Congratulations on the revival
of the club, Nagisa.
I made plenty of food so we
could celebrate together.
Thank you so much for your
help, everyone.
I couldn't have done
it without you.
I have to admit, I did help out
a lot, didn't I?
And what exactly did YOU do?
[Youhei] You don't remember the
basketball game?!
And I helped Tomoyo with her
election too! That was all me!
I'm so lucky to have good
friends like you to support me;
without your help, I couldn't
have accomplished anything.
I really can't thank you enough.
You guys are the best.
[Tomoya] Anyway, we can't sit
back and relax now.
We still have the School
Festival before summer break.
That was the whole reason we
were doing this, right?
You don't think it's too late
for that now?
[Tomoya] We've come this far.
Why hesitate now?
Okazaki...
You said that was your
dream, right?
And now you can make
it come true.
This is no time to give up!
You have to stand up and
seize this opportunity
while you can.
That's true, isn't it? I have to
give it my best, no matter what.
[Tomoya] Home visit?
[Teacher] Yes, I'm going
to see your father today
to discuss your future.
[Tomoya] It's all right, really.
No! This is important.
Especially considering your
recent suspension.
Your father should be home
right now, correct?
Well it's kinda hard to say.
Sometimes he's in, and
sometimes he isn't.
That's alright with me, I'm
willing to take a chance.
Wait here for a minute
while I get ready.
[Nagisa] What's up, Okazaki?
Is there something wrong?
Nevermind me.
What are you doing here?
I thought maybe I could get some
advice from Mr. Koumura about
the club.
Now we've got to practice
non-stop!
Why don't you come join us?
I'm sure everyone would
be happy to see you.
Sorry, but I don't care about
that kind of stuff.
I'll catch you tomorrow, okay?
[Nagisa] Wait! What about all
those things you said
back in the club room?
You said to seize the
opportunity and
make my dreams come true!
Y-You really gave me
a lot of confidence.
Don't tell me you
didn't mean it!
[Tomoya] We can talk some
other time, okay?
[Nagisa] Okazaki! Wait!
[Tomoya] Why are you
following me?!
[Nagisa] Because I'm worried
and I want to know where
you're going!
[PA Speaker] Tomoya Okazaki of
3-B, Tomoya Okazaki!
Come to the office immediately!
[Tomoya] I'm not gonna run away
so stop pulling me, all right?
[Nagisa] No way.
[Tomoya] Give me a break,
Nagisa. Don't you trust me?
[Nagisa] Nope!
[Tomoya] You didn't have to
think about that one much.
I'm sorry, Okazaki, but you have
a tendency to lie.
[teacher laughing]
Now that's a funny picture,
isn't it?
Never thought I'd see you
getting ordered around
by a girl!
It sounds a lot worse when you
put it like that.
It's a bit strange, since he's
usually ordering ME around.
Hm. Okazaki's pretty mellow
now that you're here.
Hey listen, would you mind
coming with us?
So Okazaki doesn't run away?
[Nagisa] Sure. I'd love to help
out in anyway I can.
[Tomoya] Huh?!
But- But I thought you said you
needed to talk to Mr. Koumura
about the club?
Oh, I forgot, I guess that's
important too.
Jeeze! Slacking off
already, huh?
[Teacher] I can't believe the
way he talks to you.
How can you put up with that?
You get used to it after
a while.
[Teacher] So it's just been you
and your dad living together
since you were real young,
you said?
[Tomoya] Yeah...
[Teacher] Wow, that must have
been hard on him.
Raising a little trouble maker
like you all by himself, I mean.
Yeah.
[Tomoya] Too bad.
Looks like he's out.
Well what can you do? Guess
I'll just have to wait inside.
[Tomoya] But wait!
[Teacher] It's part of being
a teacher.
I'll wait here till tomorrow
morning if I have to.
Uh...
I..I'll go look for my
dad, o-okay?
Hey, Okazaki! Wait!
[frustrated groan]
Maybe I can hide out
at Sunohara's.
[Nagisa] Okazaki?
[Nagisa] You ran away,
didn't you?
[Tomoya] Uh... Aren't you
suppose to be at practice?
It turned out that Mr. Koumura
couldn't make it,
so we all decided to call
it a day early.
You left your bag in the club
room, so I was going to your
house to return it.
[Nagisa] Stay close to me,
I'm keeping an eye on you.
[Naoyuki] I'm not sure really.
What did Tomoya have to say?
[Teacher] Uh, I believe there's
been a misunderstanding.
I haven't spoken to Tomoya yet,
of course I'm going to discuss
the matter with him as well.
but I wanted to speak to you
about it first.
I understand, but I'm afraid
that's not my decision to make.
[Naoyuki] Tomoya is Tomoya,
after all.
He can decide on his own.
[Teacher] But he's still just
a student, Mr. Okazaki.
For now at least, his guardian
[Teacher] should also be...
[Naoyuki] No, Tomoya is Tomoya.
[Naoyuki] My opinion on the
issue doesn't matter.
[Tomoya] Well, now you
know what he's like.
As far as he's concerned, I'm
not even his son anymore.
I told you what happened, right?
We got in a big fight and I hurt
my shoulder,
that's why I can't play
basketball anymore.
After that, everything changed.
We're like strangers. We stopped
being family ages ago.
We may live under the same roof
but our lives are completely
seperate.
Completely unconnected.
He still keeps a smile on his
face but I know he's all alone
in the world.
Umm, I have an idea.
Hm?
Would you like to stay at my
house for awhile?
Huh?
I mean, only if it's not any
trouble or anything.
Uh, no, no trouble at all.
I thought, for awhile at least,
it might be better
to put some space between
you and your dad.
No matter what happens
you're still family.
If you're apart, I know
you'll miss each other.
Then, bit by bit, you'll
remember the things you
loved about eachother,
and the next time you meet,
you'll be able to talk things
out. Without all the bitterness.
But still, I'm worried about
your dad.
I'm sure he'll be fine.
Even if it doesn't look like it,
he's been living alone for
a long time now.
Oh I see.
But you should visit once
in a while.
Yeah, once in a while, I guess.
This was the house I always
returned to,
but it's different now.
This time, I may never
come back.
Or maybe someday I can
return here for good.
[TV] Imagine finding dishes made
with such fresh ingredients so
close to home?
[TV] This restaurant truly
is a treasure!
[TV] And not only is the food
a treat to eat,
[TV] the owner is rather
charming as well.
[TV] Even if you're only
stopping in for an appetizer,
[TV] having the chance to meet
her is well worth the trip,
I assure you.
[TV] I'm coming back during
summer break with my family.
[TV cuts off]
[gasps]
[footsteps]
[Naoyuki] Tomoya, are you going
somewhere again?
[Tomoya] Just to a
friend's house.
[Naoyuki] That's an awfully
big bag.
[Tomoya] They're putting
me up for a while.
I haven't decided when
I'll be back.
I see, it'll be lonely
without you.
Even if we didn't speak much
I was always happy to have
you around.
Sorry, but I have my reasons
for this.
Try to understand.
I'll so my best.
[Tomoya] Well, see you later.
Goodbye, Dad. So long.
[Tomoya] Hello?
[Akio] What do you want barging
in at this time of night?
Wait, didn't Nagisa tell her
parents yet?
If you ain't got business
here, get out.
I've got a lot of work to do.
Is Nagisa here?
[Sanae] Hi, Okazaki. Come on in.
From today on, you'll be part
of the family.
Uh, I'll try my best.
Thanks for having me.
[Akio] Thanks for having you?
What's he talking about?
[Sanae] Tomoya has some
things he needs to work out
so he'll be staying here with
us for a while.
Oh is that so?!
Nagisa told us about it
earlier. Don't you remember?
Of course I do.
[Tomoya] You knew all along?
That's right.
But you know, this is no good.
Oh? What do you mean?
I won't be the only man of the
house anymore.
I just want to feel special,
that's all!
Don't mind him, Tomoya. He just
gets worked up sometimes.
Go on upstairs.
[Tomoya] Yes, ma'am.
Don't get too comfortable
around here, you little punk!
There there, let's calm down and
get back to work, okay?
Welcome home, Okazaki.
I've been waiting for you.
Are you sure I can stay in such
a nice room?
It's our guest room.
That's what it's for.
The bedding is here
in the closet.
If you're not use to sleeping
on a futon,
I can lay it out and
make it up for you.
Now it's all right, really,
I can do that much.
Just don't leave them on the
floor all day.
Wow, you're quite the busybody,
aren't you? I never knew.
No way! I am not!
I have my own problems
to worry about.
Yeah, but that's doesn't stop
you from worrying about other
people's problems too.
Well, yeah, I guess.
Seconds please, Sanae.
Sure!
Uh, thanks for the bath.
Sure, bet it felt nice, huh?
Would you like to have some
tea with us?
Uh, yeah, thank you.
For some reason I still
can't calm down.
Guess I'll get used to it.
We're leaving now,
see you later.
All right, have a nice day
at school.
You have to tell her goodbye
too, Okazaki.
Huh? Really?
Yep!
Okay. I'll see you later.
Have a nice at school.
[Nagisa] Dad, I'm going
to school.
[Akio] All right.
Be careful, okay?
'Kay. Now it's your turn.
Oh. Okay.
I'm going to school now.
Right! You go get 'em, kid!
Get what?
[Tomoya] That was kind
of embarrassing,
but your parents were so
natural about it,
so I guess I shouldn't
feel too bad.
[Nagisa] It's fun walking
to school together.
I'm use to being alone.
Right now I'm still
too embarrassed.
[giggles] To be honest, I'm a
little embarrassed myself.
But since I met you, I've grown
more confident about a lot
of things.
So a little embarrassment
doesn't bother me so much
anymore.
Starting today I'm gonna give
it my all and make sure the
School Festival turns out great.
[Tomoyay] All right.
That's the spirit!
You bet! [giggles]
[Mr. Koumura] The art crew will
be responsible for the costumes
and props.
The sound crew will handle the
music and sound effects.
And last but not least, the
light crew will handle the
stage lighting.
[Kotomi] It's sounds
complicated. Really complicated.
[Ryou] I guess we better
assign tasks to everyone.
Why don't you handle
the sound, Ryou?
After all, you were the sounding
board for Kotomi's jokes, right?
Looks like this will be
a big undertaking.
Now remind me, what are you
doing here again?
I was worried about the
Drama Club, of course.
What'd you expect? It's my job
as student council president.
When it comes to lightning,
and sound
the level of difficulty will
depend on the play you choose.
For example, if there's a lot of
fast paced action going on
then operating the switches
might be a bit more complicated.
As for sound effects our
keyboard should be fine.
This keyboard here?
[Ryou] Suspence.
[suspencful sound effect plays]
Oh! That's awesome!
Give me a break. This isn't
a game, you know.
Aw c'mon, I just want
to try one!
What's that you say, Nagisa?
Huh? What do you mean?
Is it true?
You like me more than Okazaki?!
[suspencful sound effect plays]
Wait- wait what?!
[Youhei] Alright, I understand.
Let us live together deep in the
forest where no one can find us.
And so the fated lovers joined
hands and run into the misty
sea of trees.
But! Standing behind them
[suspenceful sound effect plays]
[Youhei] was Okazaki crazed
with anger!
[Tomoya] Heh.
And standing before them
baring their fangs
were a pair of vicious harpies,
Kyou and Tomoyo!
[suspenceful sound effect plays]
[Youhei screams]
It was just a joke. They didn't
have to punch me.
[Kotomi] Don't cry. I thought
your little solo performance
was a lot of fun, Sunohara.
[Tomoya] Nagisa?
[Nagisa] Yes?
A long time ago, you said there
was some play you wanted to do.
What's it like? Or can you tell
me the name at least?
Acutally, I'm not exactly sure.
Let me get this straight,
you know what play you want to
do for the festival,
but you don't remember the title
and that why you couldn't tell
me what it is?
Right.
Hi guys, I'm home from school!
I'm home too.
What's all this?
These kids are students of
the Furukawa Tutorial School.
The Furukawa What?
Who's that?
He's not our teacher.
Hey! Don't mess with my stuff!
Oh!
Uh oh! Natchan's in trouble!
Oh no!
[Sanae claps for attention]
All right, everyone,
let's begin class.
[Kids] Okay!
Sorry, Tomoya, but I'm afraid
this was the only room I
could us.
So I guess this mean you
hold an after school
tutoring class?
[Sanae] Yes!
[Kid] Come on, Ms. Furukawa,
forget about that loser already!
And let's start class
What did you just
call me, punk?!
Okazaki...
Everyone, you should treat your
elders with respect.
And never call them losers.
[Kids] Yes ma'am!
[Akip] Hey, punk, if you've got
free time, then help out in
the shop.
Or rather, why don't you take
care of the shop, so I can have
some free time.
[Akio] It's always busy in the
mornings and evenings.
The bread I bake is pretty
popular, you know.
[Tomoya] But what about Sanae?
Is she okay?
I doubt she'll ever improve, but
we still have some kind hearted
customers who will buy her
bread out of pity.
I don't mean her bread,
I mean her class.
[Tomoya] Handling kids
can be really tough.
It's nothing to worry
about, really.
That's what she was trained
in after all.
Awhile back she even use to
teach in a middle school.
[Tomoya] No kidding? Huh.
Well then why'd she
stop teaching?
You know, things just
happen sometimes.
[Tomoya] Man I'm exhausted.
[Nagisa] Can I come in?
Sure go ahead!
Do you need something?
Oh no, I just wanted
to say hi.
It feels kind of strange,
having you staying in
my house like this.
It's gonna take a little getting
use to but I'm glad I can stop
by like this.
Yeah but you guys are used
to having guests staying
over aren't you?
I mean Mei was just here.
Sure I guess so, but at the
same time
there's something
special about you.
Sorry. I can go away if I'm
getting on your nerves.
No, I'm happy to have you.
It's just... How do I put this?
It feels kinda strange
to me too.
Strange? In what way?
Uh, well, for almost as far back
as I can remember, I've never
had a mom around the house.
On top of that you've seen
what my dad is like.
Suddenly being part of a
close-knit family feels
kind of strange.
That's all.
Yeah, I understand.
My mom and dad dote on me so
much that it makes me feel a
bit guilty sometimes.
Still, after all these years,
I haven't been able to
apologize to them.
I don't get it. Did you do
something wrong?
Actually, I'm not sure.
But somehow I have this
really bad feeling,
like something happened
when I was little.
It might not be my fault, but I
feel like I must have done
something really bad to them.
[Tomoya] I'm sure it's just
your imagination.
But Mom and Dad both say the
same thing about it.
I bring it up and they always
change the subject.
But no matter what they say, I
know they're hiding something,
because whenever I mention
it, Dad get really nice all
of a sudden.
They have to be hiding something
and whatever it is
I feel like it must be something
I need to apologize for.
Something you need to apologize
for? Like what?
That's what I'm trying
to figure out.
That way I can apologize.
I don't know.
It's always on my mind.
I'm sorry, I shouldn't bother
you with all this stuff it's not
really your problem.
Don't worry about it.
We're friends, aren't we?
[Nagisa] Right!
[Sanae] Okazaki,
the bath is ready.
Thank you, but I think I'm gonna
take my bath a bit later.
You go ahead and take
yours first.
If you don't mind I think
I'm gonna go see how
Sunohara's doing.
He get lonely if I don't stop by
to visit everyonce in a while.
Oh, I see. In that case,
say hi for me
and try not to come
back too late.
I don't think there's any place
in the world where I feel more
at ease.
Tea, please!
Yeah right, you wish.
But what about dinner?
You didn't bring anything
to eat this time.
Nope, I actually had a real
dinner this time.
Huh? Ohoho. You mean
at Nagisa's house?
Yeah. How'd you know about that?
You're one lucky little bastard,
you know that?
Well you might think
so, but it's kind of
uncomfortable really.
Don't get me wrong, I'm glad
they're putting me up,
but for some reason I just can't
feel at home there.
Hold on a second! Are you trying
to tell me that you're living
with Nagisa?!
Oops... Uh oh.
Ah! I can't even look at you!
[Tomoya] Augh, it's not
like that!
I'm just staying at their house.
Nagisa knows I don't get along
with my old man,
so she was just being
considerate when she invited me.
You're living with her, what
kind of idea did you expect
me to get?
You have her parents approval.
Come on, I told you it's not
like that!
They're just doing me a favor!
Man, you've got some nerve.
How can you still be talking
like that even now?
I don't know what you're
getting at here.
[Youhei] [sighs] Man, what
a shame. I really feel sorry
for Nagisa.
[Voice] One day, I gathered
together a bunch of odds
and ends
and tried to make another doll
like me.
[Girl] I see. So you want
a friend?
That only makes sense.
You must be lonely all
by yourself. Right?
I'm sorry.
[Voice] That's not quite it.
It's not so much that I'm
lonely really,
it's just that I thought it
might be more fun if there
were more like me.
[Girl] Then let's try,
even if it's impossible.
[Akio] Hmm. Nope,
don't remember.
Why don't you ask Sanae?
[Tomoya] I see, all right then.
[Akio] Hey, kid.
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Akio] I don't know what
you're up to,
but to tell you the truth,
I don't like the sound of it.
So listen, if you find out
something strange
just run it by me first.
Why should I?
Just do it.
Got it?
[Tomoya] Somehow, I don't think
I should go with them tomorrow.